.TH xcb_get_input_focus 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_get_input_focus \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_get_input_focus_cookie_t \fBxcb_get_input_focus\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, 
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_get_input_focus_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIrevert_to\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIfocus\fP;
} \fBxcb_get_input_focus_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_get_input_focus_reply_t *\fBxcb_get_input_focus_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_get_input_focus_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_GET_INPUT_FOCUS\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIrevert_to\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP 1i
The focus reverts to \fIXCB_NONE\fP, so no window will have the input focus.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_POINTER_ROOT\fP 1i
The focus reverts to \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP respectively. When the focus reverts,
FocusIn and FocusOut events are generated, but the last-focus-change time is
not changed.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_PARENT\fP 1i
The focus reverts to the parent (or closest viewable ancestor) and the new
revert_to value is \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_FOLLOW_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED. Only relevant for the xinput extension.
.RE
.RS 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.IP \fIfocus\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_get_input_focus_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_get_input_focus_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_get_input_focus_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
This request does never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
