.TH xcb_image_text_8 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_image_text_8 \- Draws text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_image_text_8\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIstring_len\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, int16_t\ \fIx\fP, int16_t\ \fIy\fP, const char\ *\fIstring\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIstring_len\fP 1i
The length of the \fIstring\fP. Note that this parameter limited by 255 due to
using 8 bits!
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
The drawable (Window or Pixmap) to draw text on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
The graphics context to use.

The following graphics context components are used: plane-mask, foreground,
background, font, subwindow-mode, clip-x-origin, clip-y-origin, and clip-mask.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
The x coordinate of the first character, relative to the origin of \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
The y coordinate of the first character, relative to the origin of \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
The string to draw. Only the first 255 characters are relevant due to the data
type of \fIstring_len\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fills the destination rectangle with the background pixel from \fIgc\fP, then
paints the text with the foreground pixel from \fIgc\fP. The upper-left corner of
the filled rectangle is at [x, y - font-ascent]. The width is overall-width,
the height is font-ascent + font-descent. The overall-width, font-ascent and
font-descent are as returned by \fIxcb_query_text_extents\fP (TODO).

Note that using X core fonts is deprecated (but still supported) in favor of
client-side rendering using Xft.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_image_text_8_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_g_context_error_t\fP 1i
The specified graphics context does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_image_text_16 (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
