.TH xcb_poly_fill_rectangle 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_poly_fill_rectangle \- Fills rectangles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_poly_fill_rectangle\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIrectangles_len\fP, const xcb_rectangle_t\ *\fIrectangles\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
The drawable (Window or Pixmap) to draw on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
The graphics context to use.

The following graphics context components are used: function, plane-mask,
fill-style, subwindow-mode, clip-x-origin, clip-y-origin, and clip-mask.

The following graphics context mode-dependent components are used:
foreground, background, tile, stipple, tile-stipple-x-origin, and
tile-stipple-y-origin.
.IP \fIrectangles_len\fP 1i
The number of \fIxcb_rectangle_t\fP structures in \fIrectangles\fP.
.IP \fIrectangles\fP 1i
The rectangles to fill.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fills the specified rectangle(s) in the order listed in the array. For any
given rectangle, each pixel is not drawn more than once. If rectangles
intersect, the intersecting pixels are drawn multiple times.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_poly_fill_rectangle_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_g_context_error_t\fP 1i
The specified graphics context does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
