.TH xcb_client_message_event_t 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Events"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_client_message_event_t \- NOT YET DOCUMENTED
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.PP
.SS Event datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_client_message_event_t {
    uint8_t                   \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t                   \fIformat\fP;
    uint16_t                  \fIsequence\fP;
    xcb_window_t              \fIwindow\fP;
    xcb_atom_t                \fItype\fP;
    xcb_client_message_data_t \fIdata\fP;
} \fBxcb_client_message_event_t\fP;
.fi
.br
.hy 1
.SH EVENT FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this event, in this case \fIXCB_CLIENT_MESSAGE\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_event_t\fP and can be used to tell events apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIformat\fP 1i
Specifies how to interpret \fIdata\fP. Can be either 8, 16 or 32.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
An atom which indicates how the data should be interpreted by the receiving
client.
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
The data itself (20 bytes max).
.SH DESCRIPTION
This event represents a ClientMessage, sent by another X11 client. An example
is a client sending the \fI_NET_WM_STATE\fP ClientMessage to the root window
to indicate the fullscreen window state, effectively requesting that the window
manager puts it into fullscreen mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_generic_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_send_event (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
