.TH xcb_poly_segment 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_poly_segment \- draw lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_poly_segment\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIsegments_len\fP, const xcb_segment_t\ *\fIsegments\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
A drawable (Window or Pixmap) to draw on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
The graphics context to use.

TODO: document which attributes of a gc are used
.IP \fIsegments_len\fP 1i
The number of \fIxcb_segment_t\fP structures in \fIsegments\fP.
.IP \fIsegments\fP 1i
An array of \fIxcb_segment_t\fP structures.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws multiple, unconnected lines. For each segment, a line is drawn between
(x1, y1) and (x2, y2). The lines are drawn in the order listed in the array of
\fIxcb_segment_t\fP structures and does not perform joining at coincident
endpoints. For any given line, a pixel is not drawn more than once. If lines
intersect, the intersecting pixels are drawn multiple times.

TODO: include the xcb_segment_t data structure

TODO: an example
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_poly_segment_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIdrawable\fP does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_g_context_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIgc\fP does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
