.TH xcb_query_tree 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_query_tree \- query the window tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_query_tree_cookie_t \fBxcb_query_tree\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_query_tree_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIroot\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIparent\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIchildren_len\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad1\fP[14];
} \fBxcb_query_tree_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_query_tree_reply_t *\fBxcb_query_tree_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_query_tree_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.SS Reply accessors
.HP
xcb_window_t *\fBxcb_query_tree_children\fP(const xcb_query_tree_request_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
int \fBxcb_query_tree_children_length\fP(const xcb_query_tree_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
xcb_generic_iterator_t \fBxcb_query_tree_children_end\fP(const xcb_query_tree_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
The \fIwindow\fP to query.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_QUERY_TREE\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
The root window of \fIwindow\fP.
.IP \fIparent\fP 1i
The parent window of \fIwindow\fP.
.IP \fIchildren_len\fP 1i
The number of child windows.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets the root window ID, parent window ID and list of children windows for the
specified \fIwindow\fP. The children are listed in bottom-to-top stacking order.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_query_tree_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_query_tree_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_query_tree_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
This request does never generate any errors.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Displays the root, parent and children of the specified window.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *conn, xcb_window_t window) {
    xcb_query_tree_cookie_t cookie;
    xcb_query_tree_reply_t *reply;

    cookie = xcb_query_tree(conn, window);
    if ((reply = xcb_query_tree_reply(conn, cookie, NULL))) {
        printf("root = 0x%08x\\n", reply->root);
        printf("parent = 0x%08x\\n", reply->parent);

        xcb_window_t *children = xcb_query_tree_children(reply);
        for (int i = 0; i < xcb_query_tree_children_length(reply); i++)
            printf("child window = 0x%08x\\n", children[i]);

        free(reply);
    }
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examples (3),
.BR xwininfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
