.TH xcb_intern_atom 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_intern_atom \- Get atom identifier by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_intern_atom_cookie_t \fBxcb_intern_atom\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIonly_if_exists\fP, uint16_t\ \fIname_len\fP, const char\ *\fIname\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_intern_atom_reply_t {
    uint8_t    \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t    \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t   \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t   \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_atom_t \fIatom\fP;
} \fBxcb_intern_atom_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_intern_atom_reply_t *\fBxcb_intern_atom_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_intern_atom_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIonly_if_exists\fP 1i
Return a valid atom id only if the atom already exists.
.IP \fIname_len\fP 1i
The length of the following \fIname\fP.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
The name of the atom.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_INTERN_ATOM\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIatom\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieves the identifier (xcb_atom_t TODO) for the atom with the specified
name. Atoms are used in protocols like EWMH, for example to store window titles
(\fI_NET_WM_NAME\fP atom) as property of a window.

If \fIonly_if_exists\fP is 0, the atom will be created if it does not already exist.
If \fIonly_if_exists\fP is 1, \fIXCB_ATOM_NONE\fP will be returned if the atom does
not yet exist.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_intern_atom_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_intern_atom_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_intern_atom_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
A value other than 0 or 1 was specified for \fIonly_if_exists\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Resolves the _NET_WM_NAME atom.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *c) {
    xcb_intern_atom_cookie_t cookie;
    xcb_intern_atom_reply_t *reply;

    cookie = xcb_intern_atom(c, 0, strlen("_NET_WM_NAME"), "_NET_WM_NAME");
    /* ... do other work here if possible ... */
    if ((reply = xcb_intern_atom_reply(c, cookie, NULL))) {
        printf("The _NET_WM_NAME atom has ID %u\n", reply->atom);
        free(reply);
    }
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examples (3),
.BR xcb_get_atom_name (3),
.BR xlsatoms (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
