.TH xcb_change_gc 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_change_gc \- change graphics context components
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_change_gc\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIvalue_mask\fP, const uint32_t\ *\fIvalue_list\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
The graphics context to change.
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_GC_FUNCTION\fP 1i
TODO: Refer to GX
.IP \fIXCB_GC_PLANE_MASK\fP 1i
In graphics operations, given a source and destination pixel, the result is
computed bitwise on corresponding bits of the pixels; that is, a Boolean
operation is performed in each bit plane. The plane-mask restricts the
operation to a subset of planes, so the result is:

        ((src FUNC dst) AND plane-mask) OR (dst AND (NOT plane-mask))
.IP \fIXCB_GC_FOREGROUND\fP 1i
Foreground colorpixel.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_BACKGROUND\fP 1i
Background colorpixel.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_LINE_WIDTH\fP 1i
The line-width is measured in pixels and can be greater than or equal to one, a wide line, or the
special value zero, a thin line.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_LINE_STYLE\fP 1i
The line-style defines which sections of a line are drawn:
Solid                The full path of the line is drawn.
DoubleDash           The full path of the line is drawn, but the even dashes are filled differently
                     than the odd dashes (see fill-style), with Butt cap-style used where even and
                     odd dashes meet.
OnOffDash            Only the even dashes are drawn, and cap-style applies to all internal ends of
                     the individual dashes (except NotLast is treated as Butt).
.IP \fIXCB_GC_CAP_STYLE\fP 1i
The cap-style defines how the endpoints of a path are drawn:
NotLast    The result is equivalent to Butt, except that for a line-width of zero the final
           endpoint is not drawn.
Butt       The result is square at the endpoint (perpendicular to the slope of the line)
           with no projection beyond.
Round      The result is a circular arc with its diameter equal to the line-width, centered
           on the endpoint; it is equivalent to Butt for line-width zero.
Projecting The result is square at the end, but the path continues beyond the endpoint for
           a distance equal to half the line-width; it is equivalent to Butt for line-width
           zero.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_JOIN_STYLE\fP 1i
The join-style defines how corners are drawn for wide lines:
Miter               The outer edges of the two lines extend to meet at an angle. However, if the
                    angle is less than 11 degrees, a Bevel join-style is used instead.
Round               The result is a circular arc with a diameter equal to the line-width, centered
                    on the joinpoint.
Bevel               The result is Butt endpoint styles, and then the triangular notch is filled.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_FILL_STYLE\fP 1i
The fill-style defines the contents of the source for line, text, and fill requests. For all text and fill
requests (for example, PolyText8, PolyText16, PolyFillRectangle, FillPoly, and PolyFillArc)
as well as for line requests with line-style Solid, (for example, PolyLine, PolySegment,
PolyRectangle, PolyArc) and for the even dashes for line requests with line-style OnOffDash
or DoubleDash:
Solid                     Foreground
Tiled                     Tile
OpaqueStippled            A tile with the same width and height as stipple but with background
                          everywhere stipple has a zero and with foreground everywhere stipple
                          has a one
Stippled                  Foreground masked by stipple
For the odd dashes for line requests with line-style DoubleDash:
Solid                     Background
Tiled                     Same as for even dashes
OpaqueStippled            Same as for even dashes
Stippled                  Background masked by stipple
.IP \fIXCB_GC_FILL_RULE\fP 1i

.IP \fIXCB_GC_TILE\fP 1i
The tile/stipple represents an infinite two-dimensional plane with the tile/stipple replicated in all
dimensions. When that plane is superimposed on the drawable for use in a graphics operation,
the upper-left corner of some instance of the tile/stipple is at the coordinates within the drawable
specified by the tile/stipple origin. The tile/stipple and clip origins are interpreted relative to the
origin of whatever destination drawable is specified in a graphics request.
The tile pixmap must have the same root and depth as the gcontext (or a Match error results).
The stipple pixmap must have depth one and must have the same root as the gcontext (or a
Match error results). For fill-style Stippled (but not fill-style
OpaqueStippled), the stipple pattern is tiled in a single plane and acts as an
additional clip mask to be ANDed with the clip-mask.
Any size pixmap can be used for tiling or stippling, although some sizes may be faster to use than
others.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_STIPPLE\fP 1i
The tile/stipple represents an infinite two-dimensional plane with the tile/stipple replicated in all
dimensions. When that plane is superimposed on the drawable for use in a graphics operation,
the upper-left corner of some instance of the tile/stipple is at the coordinates within the drawable
specified by the tile/stipple origin. The tile/stipple and clip origins are interpreted relative to the
origin of whatever destination drawable is specified in a graphics request.
The tile pixmap must have the same root and depth as the gcontext (or a Match error results).
The stipple pixmap must have depth one and must have the same root as the gcontext (or a
Match error results). For fill-style Stippled (but not fill-style
OpaqueStippled), the stipple pattern is tiled in a single plane and acts as an
additional clip mask to be ANDed with the clip-mask.
Any size pixmap can be used for tiling or stippling, although some sizes may be faster to use than
others.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_TILE_STIPPLE_ORIGIN_X\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIXCB_GC_TILE_STIPPLE_ORIGIN_Y\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIXCB_GC_FONT\fP 1i
Which font to use for the \fIImageText8\fP and \fIImageText16\fP requests.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_SUBWINDOW_MODE\fP 1i
For ClipByChildren, both source and destination windows are additionally
clipped by all viewable InputOutput children. For IncludeInferiors, neither
source nor destination window is
clipped by inferiors. This will result in including subwindow contents in the source and drawing
through subwindow boundaries of the destination. The use of IncludeInferiors with a source or
destination window of one depth with mapped inferiors of differing depth is not illegal, but the
semantics is undefined by the core protocol.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_GRAPHICS_EXPOSURES\fP 1i
Whether ExposureEvents should be generated (1) or not (0).

The default is 1.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_CLIP_ORIGIN_X\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIXCB_GC_CLIP_ORIGIN_Y\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIXCB_GC_CLIP_MASK\fP 1i
The clip-mask restricts writes to the destination drawable. Only pixels where the clip-mask has
bits set to 1 are drawn. Pixels are not drawn outside the area covered by the clip-mask or where
the clip-mask has bits set to 0. The clip-mask affects all graphics requests, but it does not clip
sources. The clip-mask origin is interpreted relative to the origin of whatever destination drawable is specified in a graphics request. If a pixmap is specified as the clip-mask, it must have
depth 1 and have the same root as the gcontext (or a Match error results). If clip-mask is None,
then pixels are always drawn, regardless of the clip origin. The clip-mask can also be set with the
SetClipRectangles request.
.IP \fIXCB_GC_DASH_OFFSET\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIXCB_GC_DASH_LIST\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIXCB_GC_ARC_MODE\fP 1i
TODO
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fIvalue_list\fP 1i
Values for each of the components specified in the bitmask \fIvalue_mask\fP. The
order has to correspond to the order of possible \fIvalue_mask\fP bits. See the
example.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes the components specified by \fIvalue_mask\fP for the specified graphics context.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_change_gc_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
The X server could not allocate the requested resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_font_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_g_context_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_pixmap_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Changes the foreground color component of the specified graphics context.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *conn, xcb_gcontext_t gc, uint32_t fg, uint32_t bg) {
    /* C99 allows us to use a compact way of changing a single component: */
    xcb_change_gc(conn, gc, XCB_GC_FOREGROUND, (uint32_t[]){ fg });

    /* The more explicit way. Beware that the order of values is important! */
    uint32_t mask = 0;
    mask |= XCB_GC_FOREGROUND;
    mask |= XCB_GC_BACKGROUND;

    uint32_t values[] = {
        fg,
        bg
    };
    xcb_change_gc(conn, gc, mask, values);
    xcb_flush(conn);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examples (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
