.TH xcb_create_pixmap 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_create_pixmap \- Creates a pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_create_pixmap\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIdepth\fP, xcb_pixmap_t\ \fIpid\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, uint16_t\ \fIwidth\fP, uint16_t\ \fIheight\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
TODO
.IP \fIpid\fP 1i
The ID with which you will refer to the new pixmap, created by
\fIxcb_generate_id\fP.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
Drawable to get the screen from.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
The width of the new pixmap.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
The height of the new pixmap.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a pixmap. The pixmap can only be used on the same screen as \fIdrawable\fP
is on and only with drawables of the same \fIdepth\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_create_pixmap_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
The X server could not allocate the requested resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIdrawable\fP (Window or Pixmap) does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_generate_id (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
