.TH xcb_map_window 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_map_window \- Makes a window visible
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_map_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
The window to make visible.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Maps the specified window. This means making the window visible (as long as its
parent is visible).

This MapWindow request will be translated to a MapRequest request if a window
manager is running. The window manager then decides to either map the window or
not. Set the override-redirect window attribute to true if you want to bypass
this mechanism.

If the window manager decides to map the window (or if no window manager is
running), a MapNotify event is generated.

If the window becomes viewable and no earlier contents for it are remembered,
the X server tiles the window with its background. If the window's background
is undefined, the existing screen contents are not altered, and the X server
generates zero or more Expose events.

If the window type is InputOutput, an Expose event will be generated when the
window becomes visible. The normal response to an Expose event should be to
repaint the window.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_map_window_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
The specified window does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_expose_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_map_notify_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_unmap_window (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
