.TH xcb_get_geometry 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_get_geometry \- Get current window geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_get_geometry_cookie_t \fBxcb_get_geometry\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_get_geometry_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIdepth\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIroot\fP;
    int16_t      \fIx\fP;
    int16_t      \fIy\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIwidth\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIheight\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIborder_width\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP[2];
} \fBxcb_get_geometry_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_get_geometry_reply_t *\fBxcb_get_geometry_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_get_geometry_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
The drawable (\fIWindow\fP or \fIPixmap\fP) of which the geometry will be received.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_GET_GEOMETRY\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
The depth of the drawable (bits per pixel for the object).
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
Root window of the screen containing \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
The X coordinate of \fIdrawable\fP. If \fIdrawable\fP is a window, the coordinate
specifies the upper-left outer corner relative to its parent's origin. If
\fIdrawable\fP is a pixmap, the X coordinate is always 0.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
The Y coordinate of \fIdrawable\fP. If \fIdrawable\fP is a window, the coordinate
specifies the upper-left outer corner relative to its parent's origin. If
\fIdrawable\fP is a pixmap, the Y coordinate is always 0.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
The width of \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
The height of \fIdrawable\fP.
.IP \fIborder_width\fP 1i
The border width (in pixels).
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets the current geometry of the specified drawable (either \fIWindow\fP or \fIPixmap\fP).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_get_geometry_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_get_geometry_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_get_geometry_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Displays the x and y position of the given window.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *c, xcb_window_t window) {
    xcb_get_geometry_cookie_t cookie;
    xcb_get_geometry_reply_t *reply;

    cookie = xcb_get_geometry(c, window);
    /* ... do other work here if possible ... */
    if ((reply = xcb_get_geometry_reply(c, cookie, NULL))) {
        printf("This window is at %d, %d\\n", reply->x, reply->y);
    }
    free(reply);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examples (3),
.BR xwininfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
