.TH xcb_create_window 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_create_window \- Creates a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_create_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIdepth\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwid\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIparent\fP, int16_t\ \fIx\fP, int16_t\ \fIy\fP, uint16_t\ \fIwidth\fP, uint16_t\ \fIheight\fP, uint16_t\ \fIborder_width\fP, uint16_t\ \fI_class\fP, xcb_visualid_t\ \fIvisual\fP, uint32_t\ \fIvalue_mask\fP, const uint32_t\ *\fIvalue_list\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies the new window's depth (TODO: what unit?).

The special value \fIXCB_COPY_FROM_PARENT\fP means the depth is taken from the
\fIparent\fP window.
.IP \fIwid\fP 1i
The ID with which you will refer to the new window, created by
\fIxcb_generate_id\fP.
.IP \fIparent\fP 1i
The parent window of the new window.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
The X coordinate of the new window.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
The Y coordinate of the new window.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
The width of the new window.
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
The height of the new window.
.IP \fIborder_width\fP 1i
TODO:

Must be zero if the \fIclass\fP is \fIInputOnly\fP or a \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP occurs.
.IP \fI_class\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_WINDOW_CLASS_COPY_FROM_PARENT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_WINDOW_CLASS_INPUT_OUTPUT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_WINDOW_CLASS_INPUT_ONLY\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fIvisual\fP 1i
Specifies the id for the new window's visual.

The special value \fIXCB_COPY_FROM_PARENT\fP means the visual is taken from the
\fIparent\fP window.
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BACK_PIXMAP\fP 1i
Overrides the default background-pixmap. The background pixmap and window must
have the same root and same depth. Any size pixmap can be used, although some
sizes may be faster than others.

If \fIXCB_BACK_PIXMAP_NONE\fP is specified, the window has no defined background.
The server may fill the contents with the previous screen contents or with
contents of its own choosing.

If \fIXCB_BACK_PIXMAP_PARENT_RELATIVE\fP is specified, the parent's background is
used, but the window must have the same depth as the parent (or a Match error
results).   The parent's background is tracked, and the current version is
used each time the window background is required.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BACK_PIXEL\fP 1i
Overrides \fIBackPixmap\fP. A pixmap of undefined size filled with the specified
background pixel is used for the background. Range-checking is not performed,
the background pixel is truncated to the appropriate number of bits.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BORDER_PIXMAP\fP 1i
Overrides the default border-pixmap. The border pixmap and window must have the
same root and the same depth. Any size pixmap can be used, although some sizes
may be faster than others.

The special value \fIXCB_COPY_FROM_PARENT\fP means the parent's border pixmap is
copied (subsequent changes to the parent's border attribute do not affect the
child), but the window must have the same depth as the parent.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BORDER_PIXEL\fP 1i
Overrides \fIBorderPixmap\fP. A pixmap of undefined size filled with the specified
border pixel is used for the border. Range checking is not performed on the
border-pixel value, it is truncated to the appropriate number of bits.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BIT_GRAVITY\fP 1i
Defines which region of the window should be retained if the window is resized.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_WIN_GRAVITY\fP 1i
Defines how the window should be repositioned if the parent is resized (see
\fIConfigureWindow\fP).
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BACKING_STORE\fP 1i
A backing-store of \fIWhenMapped\fP advises the server that maintaining contents of
obscured regions when the window is mapped would be beneficial. A backing-store
of \fIAlways\fP advises the server that maintaining contents even when the window
is unmapped would be beneficial. In this case, the server may generate an
exposure event when the window is created. A value of \fINotUseful\fP advises the
server that maintaining contents is unnecessary, although a server may still
choose to maintain contents while the window is mapped. Note that if the server
maintains contents, then the server should maintain complete contents not just
the region within the parent boundaries, even if the window is larger than its
parent. While the server maintains contents, exposure events will not normally
be generated, but the server may stop maintaining contents at any time.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BACKING_PLANES\fP 1i
The backing-planes indicates (with bits set to 1) which bit planes of the
window hold dynamic data that must be preserved in backing-stores and during
save-unders.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_BACKING_PIXEL\fP 1i
The backing-pixel specifies what value to use in planes not covered by
backing-planes. The server is free to save only the specified bit planes in the
backing-store or save-under and regenerate the remaining planes with the
specified pixel value. Any bits beyond the specified depth of the window in
these values are simply ignored.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_OVERRIDE_REDIRECT\fP 1i
The override-redirect specifies whether map and configure requests on this
window should override a SubstructureRedirect on the parent, typically to
inform a window manager not to tamper with the window.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_SAVE_UNDER\fP 1i
If 1, the server is advised that when this window is mapped, saving the
contents of windows it obscures would be beneficial.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_EVENT_MASK\fP 1i
The event-mask defines which events the client is interested in for this window
(or for some event types, inferiors of the window).
.IP \fIXCB_CW_DONT_PROPAGATE\fP 1i
The do-not-propagate-mask defines which events should not be propagated to
ancestor windows when no client has the event type selected in this window.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_COLORMAP\fP 1i
The colormap specifies the colormap that best reflects the true colors of the window. Servers
capable of supporting multiple hardware colormaps may use this information, and window man-
agers may use it for InstallColormap requests. The colormap must have the same visual type
and root as the window (or a Match error results). If CopyFromParent is specified, the parent's
colormap is copied (subsequent changes to the parent's colormap attribute do not affect the child).
However, the window must have the same visual type as the parent (or a Match error results),
and the parent must not have a colormap of None (or a Match error results). For an explanation
of None, see FreeColormap request. The colormap is copied by sharing the colormap object
between the child and the parent, not by making a complete copy of the colormap contents.
.IP \fIXCB_CW_CURSOR\fP 1i
If a cursor is specified, it will be used whenever the pointer is in the window. If None is speci-
fied, the parent's cursor will be used when the pointer is in the window, and any change in the
parent's cursor will cause an immediate change in the displayed cursor.
.RE
.RS 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.IP \fIvalue_list\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates an unmapped window as child of the specified \fIparent\fP window. A
CreateNotify event will be generated. The new window is placed on top in the
stacking order with respect to siblings.

The coordinate system has the X axis horizontal and the Y axis vertical with
the origin [0, 0] at the upper-left corner. Coordinates are integral, in terms
of pixels, and coincide with pixel centers. Each window and pixmap has its own
coordinate system. For a window, the origin is inside the border at the inside,
upper-left corner.

The created window is not yet displayed (mapped), call \fIxcb_map_window\fP to
display it.

The created window will initially use the same cursor as its parent.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_create_window_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
The X server could not allocate the requested resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_colormap_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_cursor_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_pixmap_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_create_notify_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_map_window (3),
.BR xcb_generate_id (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
