.TH xcb_reparent_window 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_reparent_window \- Reparents a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_reparent_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIparent\fP, int16_t\ \fIx\fP, int16_t\ \fIy\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
The window to reparent.
.IP \fIparent\fP 1i
The new parent of the window.
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
The X position of the window within its new parent.
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
The Y position of the window within its new parent.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Makes the specified window a child of the specified parent window. If the
window is mapped, it will automatically be unmapped before reparenting and
re-mapped after reparenting. The window is placed in the stacking order on top
with respect to sibling windows.

After reparenting, a ReparentNotify event is generated.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_reparent_window_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
The new parent window is not on the same screen as the old parent window.

The new parent window is the specified window or an inferior of the specified window.

The new parent is InputOnly and the window is not.

The specified window has a ParentRelative background and the new parent window is not the same depth as the specified window.
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
The specified window does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_map_window (3),
.BR xcb_reparent_notify_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_unmap_window (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
