.TH xcb_list_fonts_with_info 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_list_fonts_with_info \- get matching font names and information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_list_fonts_with_info_cookie_t \fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint16_t\ \fImax_names\fP, uint16_t\ \fIpattern_len\fP, const char\ *\fIpattern\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t {
    uint8_t        \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t        \fIname_len\fP;
    uint16_t       \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t       \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_charinfo_t \fImin_bounds\fP;
    uint8_t        \fIpad0\fP[4];
    xcb_charinfo_t \fImax_bounds\fP;
    uint8_t        \fIpad1\fP[4];
    uint16_t       \fImin_char_or_byte2\fP;
    uint16_t       \fImax_char_or_byte2\fP;
    uint16_t       \fIdefault_char\fP;
    uint16_t       \fIproperties_len\fP;
    uint8_t        \fIdraw_direction\fP;
    uint8_t        \fImin_byte1\fP;
    uint8_t        \fImax_byte1\fP;
    uint8_t        \fIall_chars_exist\fP;
    int16_t        \fIfont_ascent\fP;
    int16_t        \fIfont_descent\fP;
    uint32_t       \fIreplies_hint\fP;
} \fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t *\fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_list_fonts_with_info_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.SS Reply accessors
.HP
xcb_fontprop_t *\fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_properties\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_with_info_request_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
int \fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_properties_length\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
xcb_fontprop_iterator_t \fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_properties_iterator\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
char *\fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_name\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_with_info_request_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
int \fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_name_length\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.HP
xcb_generic_iterator_t \fBxcb_list_fonts_with_info_name_end\fP(const xcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply_t *\fIreply\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fImax_names\fP 1i
The maximum number of fonts to be returned.
.IP \fIpattern_len\fP 1i
The length (in bytes) of \fIpattern\fP.
.IP \fIpattern\fP 1i
A font pattern, for example "-misc-fixed-*".

The asterisk (*) is a wildcard for any number of characters. The question mark
(?) is a wildcard for a single character. Use of uppercase or lowercase does
not matter.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_LIST_FONTS_WITH_INFO\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIname_len\fP 1i
The number of matched font names.
.IP \fImin_bounds\fP 1i
minimum bounds over all existing char
.IP \fImax_bounds\fP 1i
maximum bounds over all existing char
.IP \fImin_char_or_byte2\fP 1i
first character
.IP \fImax_char_or_byte2\fP 1i
last character
.IP \fIdefault_char\fP 1i
char to print for undefined character
.IP \fIproperties_len\fP 1i
how many properties there are
.IP \fIdraw_direction\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_FONT_DRAW_LEFT_TO_RIGHT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_FONT_DRAW_RIGHT_TO_LEFT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fImin_byte1\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fImax_byte1\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIall_chars_exist\fP 1i
flag if all characters have nonzero size
.IP \fIfont_ascent\fP 1i
baseline to top edge of raster
.IP \fIfont_descent\fP 1i
baseline to bottom edge of raster
.IP \fIreplies_hint\fP 1i
An indication of how many more fonts will be returned. This is only a hint and
may be larger or smaller than the number of fonts actually returned. A zero
value does not guarantee that no more fonts will be returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets a list of available font names which match the given \fIpattern\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_list_fonts_with_info_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_list_fonts_with_info_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_list_fonts_with_info_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
This request does never generate any errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
