.TH xcb_allow_events 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_allow_events \- release queued events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_allow_events\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fImode\fP, xcb_timestamp_t\ \fItime\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_ASYNC_POINTER\fP 1i
For AsyncPointer, if the pointer is frozen by the client, pointer event
processing continues normally. If the pointer is frozen twice by the client on
behalf of two separate grabs, AsyncPointer thaws for both. AsyncPointer has no
effect if the pointer is not frozen by the client, but the pointer need not be
grabbed by the client.

TODO: rewrite this in more understandable terms.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_SYNC_POINTER\fP 1i
For SyncPointer, if the pointer is frozen and actively grabbed by the client,
pointer event processing continues normally until the next ButtonPress or
ButtonRelease event is reported to the client, at which time the pointer again
appears to freeze. However, if the reported event causes the pointer grab to be
released, then the pointer does not freeze. SyncPointer has no effect if the
pointer is not frozen by the client or if the pointer is not grabbed by the
client.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_REPLAY_POINTER\fP 1i
For ReplayPointer, if the pointer is actively grabbed by the client and is
frozen as the result of an event having been sent to the client (either from
the activation of a GrabButton or from a previous AllowEvents with mode
SyncPointer but not from a GrabPointer), then the pointer grab is released and
that event is completely reprocessed, this time ignoring any passive grabs at
or above (towards the root) the grab-window of the grab just released. The
request has no effect if the pointer is not grabbed by the client or if the
pointer is not frozen as the result of an event.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_ASYNC_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
For AsyncKeyboard, if the keyboard is frozen by the client, keyboard event
processing continues normally. If the keyboard is frozen twice by the client on
behalf of two separate grabs, AsyncKeyboard thaws for both. AsyncKeyboard has
no effect if the keyboard is not frozen by the client, but the keyboard need
not be grabbed by the client.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_SYNC_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
For SyncKeyboard, if the keyboard is frozen and actively grabbed by the client,
keyboard event processing continues normally until the next KeyPress or
KeyRelease event is reported to the client, at which time the keyboard again
appears to freeze. However, if the reported event causes the keyboard grab to
be released, then the keyboard does not freeze. SyncKeyboard has no effect if
the keyboard is not frozen by the client or if the keyboard is not grabbed by
the client.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_REPLAY_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
For ReplayKeyboard, if the keyboard is actively grabbed by the client and is
frozen as the result of an event having been sent to the client (either from
the activation of a GrabKey or from a previous AllowEvents with mode
SyncKeyboard but not from a GrabKeyboard), then the keyboard grab is released
and that event is completely reprocessed, this time ignoring any passive grabs
at or above (towards the root) the grab-window of the grab just released. The
request has no effect if the keyboard is not grabbed by the client or if the
keyboard is not frozen as the result of an event.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_ASYNC_BOTH\fP 1i
For AsyncBoth, if the pointer and the keyboard are frozen by the client, event
processing for both devices continues normally. If a device is frozen twice by
the client on behalf of two separate grabs, AsyncBoth thaws for both. AsyncBoth
has no effect unless both pointer and keyboard are frozen by the client.
.IP \fIXCB_ALLOW_SYNC_BOTH\fP 1i
For SyncBoth, if both pointer and keyboard are frozen by the client, event
processing (for both devices) continues normally until the next ButtonPress,
ButtonRelease, KeyPress, or KeyRelease event is reported to the client for a
grabbed device (button event for the pointer, key event for the keyboard), at
which time the devices again appear to freeze. However, if the reported event
causes the grab to be released, then the devices do not freeze (but if the
other device is still grabbed, then a subsequent event for it will still cause
both devices to freeze). SyncBoth has no effect unless both pointer and
keyboard are frozen by the client. If the pointer or keyboard is frozen twice
by the client on behalf of two separate grabs, SyncBoth thaws for both (but a
subsequent freeze for SyncBoth will only freeze each device once).
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Timestamp to avoid race conditions when running X over the network.

The special value \fIXCB_CURRENT_TIME\fP will be replaced with the current server
time.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Releases queued events if the client has caused a device (pointer/keyboard) to
freeze due to grabbing it actively. This request has no effect if \fItime\fP is
earlier than the last-grab time of the most recent active grab for this client
or if \fItime\fP is later than the current X server time.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_allow_events_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
You specified an invalid \fImode\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
