.TH xcb_poly_line 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_poly_line \- draw lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_poly_line\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIcoordinate_mode\fP, xcb_drawable_t\ \fIdrawable\fP, xcb_gcontext_t\ \fIgc\fP, uint32_t\ \fIpoints_len\fP, const xcb_point_t\ *\fIpoints\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIcoordinate_mode\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_COORD_MODE_ORIGIN\fP 1i
Treats all coordinates as relative to the origin.
.IP \fIXCB_COORD_MODE_PREVIOUS\fP 1i
Treats all coordinates after the first as relative to the previous coordinate.
.RE
.RS 1i


.RE
.IP \fIdrawable\fP 1i
The drawable to draw the line(s) on.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
The graphics context to use.
.IP \fIpoints_len\fP 1i
The number of \fIxcb_point_t\fP structures in \fIpoints\fP.
.IP \fIpoints\fP 1i
An array of points.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws \fIpoints_len\fP-1 lines between each pair of points (point[i], point[i+1])
in the \fIpoints\fP array. The lines are drawn in the order listed in the array.
They join correctly at all intermediate points, and if the first and last
points coincide, the first and last lines also join correctly. For any given
line, a pixel is not drawn more than once. If thin (zero line-width) lines
intersect, the intersecting pixels are drawn multiple times. If wide lines
intersect, the intersecting pixels are drawn only once, as though the entire
request were a single, filled shape.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_poly_line_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_drawable_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_g_context_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Draw a straight line.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *conn, xcb_drawable_t drawable, xcb_gcontext_t gc) {
    xcb_poly_line(conn, XCB_COORD_MODE_ORIGIN, drawable, gc, 2,
                  (xcb_point_t[]) { {10, 10}, {100, 10} });
    xcb_flush(conn);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examples (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
