.TH xcb_change_save_set 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_change_save_set \- Changes a client's save set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_change_save_set\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fImode\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_SET_MODE_INSERT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_SET_MODE_DELETE\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.RS 1i

Insert to add the specified window to the save set or Delete to delete it from the save set.
.RE
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
The window to add or delete to/from your save set.
.SH DESCRIPTION
TODO: explain what the save set is for.

This function either adds or removes the specified window to the client's (your
application's) save set.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_change_save_set_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
You created the specified window. This does not make sense, you can only add
windows created by other clients to your save set.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
You specified an invalid mode.
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
The specified window does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_reparent_window (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
