.TH xcb_enter_notify_event_t 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Events"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_enter_notify_event_t \- the pointer is in a different window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.PP
.SS Event datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_enter_notify_event_t {
    uint8_t         \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t         \fIdetail\fP;
    uint16_t        \fIsequence\fP;
    xcb_timestamp_t \fItime\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIroot\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIevent\fP;
    xcb_window_t    \fIchild\fP;
    int16_t         \fIroot_x\fP;
    int16_t         \fIroot_y\fP;
    int16_t         \fIevent_x\fP;
    int16_t         \fIevent_y\fP;
    uint16_t        \fIstate\fP;
    uint8_t         \fImode\fP;
    uint8_t         \fIsame_screen_focus\fP;
} \fBxcb_enter_notify_event_t\fP;
.fi
.br
.hy 1
.SH EVENT FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this event, in this case \fIXCB_ENTER_NOTIFY\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_event_t\fP and can be used to tell events apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIdetail\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
The root window for the final cursor position.
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
The window on which the event was generated.
.IP \fIchild\fP 1i
If the \fIevent\fP window has subwindows and the final pointer position is in one
of them, then \fIchild\fP is set to that subwindow, \fIXCB_WINDOW_NONE\fP otherwise.
.IP \fIroot_x\fP 1i
The pointer X coordinate relative to \fIroot\fP's origin at the time of the event.
.IP \fIroot_y\fP 1i
The pointer Y coordinate relative to \fIroot\fP's origin at the time of the event.
.IP \fIevent_x\fP 1i
If \fIevent\fP is on the same screen as \fIroot\fP, this is the pointer X coordinate
relative to the event window's origin.
.IP \fIevent_y\fP 1i
If \fIevent\fP is on the same screen as \fIroot\fP, this is the pointer Y coordinate
relative to the event window's origin.
.IP \fIstate\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i

.IP \fIsame_screen_focus\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb_generic_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
