.TH xcb_set_input_focus 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_set_input_focus \- Sets input focus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_set_input_focus\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, uint8_t\ \fIrevert_to\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIfocus\fP, xcb_timestamp_t\ \fItime\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIrevert_to\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP 1i
The focus reverts to \fIXCB_NONE\fP, so no window will have the input focus.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_POINTER_ROOT\fP 1i
The focus reverts to \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP respectively. When the focus reverts,
FocusIn and FocusOut events are generated, but the last-focus-change time is
not changed.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_PARENT\fP 1i
The focus reverts to the parent (or closest viewable ancestor) and the new
revert_to value is \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_NONE\fP.
.IP \fIXCB_INPUT_FOCUS_FOLLOW_KEYBOARD\fP 1i
NOT YET DOCUMENTED. Only relevant for the xinput extension.
.RE
.RS 1i

Specifies what happens when the \fIfocus\fP window becomes unviewable (if \fIfocus\fP
is neither \fIXCB_NONE\fP nor \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP).
.RE
.IP \fIfocus\fP 1i
The window to focus. All keyboard events will be reported to this window. The
window must be viewable (TODO), or a \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP occurs (TODO).

If \fIfocus\fP is \fIXCB_NONE\fP (TODO), all keyboard events are
discarded until a new focus window is set.

If \fIfocus\fP is \fIXCB_POINTER_ROOT\fP (TODO), focus is on the root window of the
screen on which the pointer is on currently.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Timestamp to avoid race conditions when running X over the network.

The special value \fIXCB_CURRENT_TIME\fP will be replaced with the current server
time.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes the input focus and the last-focus-change time. If the specified \fItime\fP
is earlier than the current last-focus-change time, the request is ignored (to
avoid race conditions when running X over the network).

A FocusIn and FocusOut event is generated when focus is changed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_set_input_focus_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIfocus\fP window is not viewable.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: Reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIfocus\fP window does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_focus_in_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_focus_out_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
