.TH xcb_create_glyph_cursor 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_create_glyph_cursor \- create cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_create_glyph_cursor\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_cursor_t\ \fIcid\fP, xcb_font_t\ \fIsource_font\fP, xcb_font_t\ \fImask_font\fP, uint16_t\ \fIsource_char\fP, uint16_t\ \fImask_char\fP, uint16_t\ \fIfore_red\fP, uint16_t\ \fIfore_green\fP, uint16_t\ \fIfore_blue\fP, uint16_t\ \fIback_red\fP, uint16_t\ \fIback_green\fP, uint16_t\ \fIback_blue\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIcid\fP 1i
The ID with which you will refer to the cursor, created by \fIxcb_generate_id\fP.
.IP \fIsource_font\fP 1i
In which font to look for the cursor glyph.
.IP \fImask_font\fP 1i
In which font to look for the mask glyph.
.IP \fIsource_char\fP 1i
The glyph of \fIsource_font\fP to use.
.IP \fImask_char\fP 1i
The glyph of \fImask_font\fP to use as a mask: Pixels which are set to 1 define
which source pixels are displayed. All pixels which are set to 0 are not
displayed.
.IP \fIfore_red\fP 1i
The red value of the foreground color.
.IP \fIfore_green\fP 1i
The green value of the foreground color.
.IP \fIfore_blue\fP 1i
The blue value of the foreground color.
.IP \fIback_red\fP 1i
The red value of the background color.
.IP \fIback_green\fP 1i
The green value of the background color.
.IP \fIback_blue\fP 1i
The blue value of the background color.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a cursor from a font glyph. X provides a set of standard cursor shapes
in a special font named cursor. Applications are encouraged to use this
interface for their cursors because the font can be customized for the
individual display type.

All pixels which are set to 1 in the source will use the foreground color (as
specified by \fIfore_red\fP, \fIfore_green\fP and \fIfore_blue\fP). All pixels set to 0
will use the background color (as specified by \fIback_red\fP, \fIback_green\fP and
\fIback_blue\fP).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_create_glyph_cursor_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_alloc_error_t\fP 1i
The X server could not allocate the requested resources (no memory?).
.IP \fIxcb_font_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIsource_font\fP or \fImask_font\fP does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
Either \fIsource_char\fP or \fImask_char\fP are not defined in \fIsource_font\fP or \fImask_font\fP, respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
