.TH xcb_query_text_extents 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_query_text_extents \- get text extents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_query_text_extents_cookie_t \fBxcb_query_text_extents\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_fontable_t\ \fIfont\fP, uint32_t\ \fIstring_len\fP, const xcb_char2b_t\ *\fIstring\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_query_text_extents_reply_t {
    uint8_t  \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t  \fIdraw_direction\fP;
    uint16_t \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t \fIlength\fP;
    int16_t  \fIfont_ascent\fP;
    int16_t  \fIfont_descent\fP;
    int16_t  \fIoverall_ascent\fP;
    int16_t  \fIoverall_descent\fP;
    int32_t  \fIoverall_width\fP;
    int32_t  \fIoverall_left\fP;
    int32_t  \fIoverall_right\fP;
} \fBxcb_query_text_extents_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_query_text_extents_reply_t *\fBxcb_query_text_extents_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_query_text_extents_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
The \fIfont\fP to calculate text extents in. You can also pass a graphics context.
.IP \fIstring_len\fP 1i
The number of characters in \fIstring\fP.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
The text to get text extents for.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_QUERY_TEXT_EXTENTS\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIdraw_direction\fP 1i
One of the following values:
.RS 1i
.IP \fIXCB_FONT_DRAW_LEFT_TO_RIGHT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIXCB_FONT_DRAW_RIGHT_TO_LEFT\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.RS 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.RE
.IP \fIfont_ascent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIfont_descent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_ascent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_descent\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_width\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_left\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.IP \fIoverall_right\fP 1i
TODO: NOT YET DOCUMENTED.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Query text extents from the X11 server. This request returns the bounding box
of the specified 16-bit character string in the specified \fIfont\fP or the font
contained in the specified graphics context.

\fIfont_ascent\fP is set to the maximum of the ascent metrics of all characters in
the string. \fIfont_descent\fP is set to the maximum of the descent metrics.
\fIoverall_width\fP is set to the sum of the character-width metrics of all
characters in the string. For each character in the string, let W be the sum of
the character-width metrics of all characters preceding it in the string. Let L
be the left-side-bearing metric of the character plus W. Let R be the
right-side-bearing metric of the character plus W. The lbearing member is set
to the minimum L of all characters in the string. The rbearing member is set to
the maximum R.

For fonts defined with linear indexing rather than 2-byte matrix indexing, each
\fIxcb_char2b_t\fP structure is interpreted as a 16-bit number with byte1 as the
most significant byte. If the font has no defined default character, undefined
characters in the string are taken to have all zero metrics.

Characters with all zero metrics are ignored. If the font has no defined
default_char, the undefined characters in the string are also ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_query_text_extents_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_query_text_extents_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_query_text_extents_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_font_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIfont\fP does not exist.
.IP \fIxcb_g_context_error_t\fP 1i
The specified graphics context does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
