.TH xcb_get_selection_owner 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_get_selection_owner \- Gets the owner of a selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_get_selection_owner_cookie_t \fBxcb_get_selection_owner\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_atom_t\ \fIselection\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_get_selection_owner_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIowner\fP;
} \fBxcb_get_selection_owner_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_get_selection_owner_reply_t *\fBxcb_get_selection_owner_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_get_selection_owner_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
The selection.
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_GET_SELECTION_OWNER\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIowner\fP 1i
The current selection owner window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets the owner of the specified selection.

TODO: briefly explain what a selection is.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_get_selection_owner_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_get_selection_owner_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_get_selection_owner_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_atom_error_t\fP 1i
\fIselection\fP does not refer to a valid atom.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb_set_selection_owner (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
