.TH xcb_configure_window 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_configure_window \- Configures window attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_void_cookie_t \fBxcb_configure_window\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP, uint16_t\ \fIvalue_mask\fP, const uint32_t\ *\fIvalue_list\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
The window to configure.
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Bitmask of attributes to change.
.IP \fIvalue_list\fP 1i
New values, corresponding to the attributes in value_mask. The order has to
correspond to the order of possible \fIvalue_mask\fP bits. See the example.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Configures a window's size, position, border width and stacking order.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_void_cookie_t\fP. Errors (if any) have to be handled in the event loop.

If you want to handle errors directly with \fIxcb_request_check\fP instead, use \fIxcb_configure_window_checked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_match_error_t\fP 1i
You specified a Sibling without also specifying StackMode or the window is not
actually a Sibling.
.IP \fIxcb_value_error_t\fP 1i
TODO: reasons?
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
The specified window does not exist. TODO: any other reason?
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.sp
/*
 * Configures the given window to the left upper corner
 * with a size of 1024x768 pixels.
 *
 */
void my_example(xcb_connection *c, xcb_window_t window) {
    uint16_t mask = 0;

    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_X;
    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_Y;
    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_WIDTH;
    mask |= XCB_CONFIG_WINDOW_HEIGHT;

    const uint32_t values[] = {
        0,    /* x */
        0,    /* y */
        1024, /* width */
        768   /* height */
    };

    xcb_configure_window(c, window, mask, values);
    xcb_flush(c);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3),
.BR xcb-examples (3),
.BR xcb_expose_event_t (3),
.BR xcb_map_notify_event_t (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
