.TH xcb_query_pointer 3  "libxcb 1.11" "X Version 11" "XCB Requests"
.ad l
.SH NAME
xcb_query_pointer \- get pointer coordinates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B #include <xcb/xproto.h>
.SS Request function
.HP
xcb_query_pointer_cookie_t \fBxcb_query_pointer\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_window_t\ \fIwindow\fP);
.PP
.SS Reply datastructure
.nf
.sp
typedef struct xcb_query_pointer_reply_t {
    uint8_t      \fIresponse_type\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIsame_screen\fP;
    uint16_t     \fIsequence\fP;
    uint32_t     \fIlength\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIroot\fP;
    xcb_window_t \fIchild\fP;
    int16_t      \fIroot_x\fP;
    int16_t      \fIroot_y\fP;
    int16_t      \fIwin_x\fP;
    int16_t      \fIwin_y\fP;
    uint16_t     \fImask\fP;
    uint8_t      \fIpad0\fP[2];
} \fBxcb_query_pointer_reply_t\fP;
.fi
.SS Reply function
.HP
xcb_query_pointer_reply_t *\fBxcb_query_pointer_reply\fP(xcb_connection_t\ *\fIconn\fP, xcb_query_pointer_cookie_t\ \fIcookie\fP, xcb_generic_error_t\ **\fIe\fP);
.br
.hy 1
.SH REQUEST ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconn\fP 1i
The XCB connection to X11.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
A window to check if the pointer is on the same screen as \fIwindow\fP (see the
\fIsame_screen\fP field in the reply).
.SH REPLY FIELDS
.IP \fIresponse_type\fP 1i
The type of this reply, in this case \fIXCB_QUERY_POINTER\fP. This field is also present in the \fIxcb_generic_reply_t\fP and can be used to tell replies apart from each other.
.IP \fIsequence\fP 1i
The sequence number of the last request processed by the X11 server.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
The length of the reply, in words (a word is 4 bytes).
.IP \fIsame_screen\fP 1i
If \fIsame_screen\fP is False, then the pointer is not on the same screen as the
argument window, \fIchild\fP is None, and \fIwin_x\fP and \fIwin_y\fP are zero. If
\fIsame_screen\fP is True, then \fIwin_x\fP and \fIwin_y\fP are the pointer coordinates
relative to the argument window's origin, and child is the child containing the
pointer, if any.
.IP \fIroot\fP 1i
The root window the pointer is logically on.
.IP \fIchild\fP 1i
The child window containing the pointer, if any, if \fIsame_screen\fP is true. If
\fIsame_screen\fP is false, \fIXCB_NONE\fP is returned.
.IP \fIroot_x\fP 1i
The pointer X position, relative to \fIroot\fP.
.IP \fIroot_y\fP 1i
The pointer Y position, relative to \fIroot\fP.
.IP \fIwin_x\fP 1i
The pointer X coordinate, relative to \fIchild\fP, if \fIsame_screen\fP is true. Zero
otherwise.
.IP \fIwin_y\fP 1i
The pointer Y coordinate, relative to \fIchild\fP, if \fIsame_screen\fP is true. Zero
otherwise.
.IP \fImask\fP 1i
The current logical state of the modifier keys and the buttons. Note that the
logical state of a device (as seen by means of the protocol) may lag the
physical state if device event processing is frozen.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gets the root window the pointer is logically on and the pointer coordinates
relative to the root window's origin.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIxcb_query_pointer_cookie_t\fP. Errors have to be handled when calling the reply function \fIxcb_query_pointer_reply\fP.

If you want to handle errors in the event loop instead, use \fIxcb_query_pointer_unchecked\fP. See \fBxcb-requests(3)\fP for details.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fIxcb_window_error_t\fP 1i
The specified \fIwindow\fP does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xcb-requests (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated from xproto.xml. Contact xcb@lists.freedesktop.org for corrections and improvements.
