.\" $Aumix: aumix/doc/aumix.1,v 1.7 2010/05/04 23:30:28 trevor Exp $
.\" from mdoc.samples(7)
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.\"           .Dd Month day, year
.\"           .Os OPERATING_SYSTEM [version/release]
.\"           .Dt DOCUMENT_TITLE [section number] [volume]
.\"           .Sh NAME
.\"           .Nm name
.\"           .Nd one line description of name
.\"           .Sh SYNOPSIS
.\"           .Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and
.\" used where appropriate.  This next request is
.\" for sections 2, 3 and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7, 8 & 9 only
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7, 8 & 9 only
.\"     (command return values (to shell) and
.\"       fprintf/stderr type diagnostics)
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" The next request is for sections 2, 3 and 9 error
.\" and signal handling only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\"
.Dd July 13, 2000
.Os
.Dt AUMIX 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm aumix
.Nd adjust audio mixer
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
[\-<channel option>[[+|\-][<amount>]]|<level>|R[ecord]|P[lay]|q[uery]]
[\-dhILqS] [\-f <rc file>][\-C <color scheme file>]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This program adjusts the settings of an audio mixing device.
It can be used from the command line, in scripts, or interactively
with the keyboard or mouse.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss CHANNEL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Fl -compact
.It Fl v
main volume
.It Fl b
bass
.It Fl c
CD
.It Fl i
input gain
.It Fl l
line
.It Fl m
microphone
.It Fl o
output gain
.It Fl p
PC speaker
.It Fl r
record
.It Fl s
synthesizer
.It Fl t
treble
.It Fl w
PCM
.It Fl W
PCM 2
.It Fl x
mix monitor
.It Fl 1
line 1
.It Fl 2
line 2
.It Fl 3
line 3
.El
.Pp
For each channel, 
.Cm q
queries, 
.Cm +
and
.Cm \-
increment and decrement by one, or an amount if one is specified.
If no
.Cm +
or
.Cm \-
is given after the channel option, a number sets a specific level
(monophonically).
.Ss OTHER OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl C Ar color_scheme_file
specify the name of a file containing a color scheme.
This implies
.Fl I .
.It Fl d Ar device_file
specify the name of the mixer device (default is
.Pa /dev/mixer )
.It Fl f Ar rc_file
specify file for saving and loading settings
.It Fl h
display information on usage
.It Fl I
run
.Nm
interactively, using the full-screen ncurses-based interface.
This is the default if no options are given, but must be specified
in order to have
.Nm
go into interactive mode after doing things non-interactively.
.It Fl L
load settings from
.Pa $HOME/.aumixrc ,
or
.Pa /etc/aumixrc
if the former is inaccessible
.It Fl q
query all devices and print their settings
.It Fl S
save settings to
.Pa $HOME/.aumixrc
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command
.Bd -literal -offset indent
aumix \-q \-v75 \-m 0 \-c R \-c+10 \-m q
.Ed
.Pp
prints all settings, sets volume to 75%, sets microphone to 0, sets
CD to record, increases the CD level by ten (both left and right),
and prints the new settings for the microphone.
.Pp
The .aumixrc file containing:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
vol:60:60
wait:5000
vol:50:50
.Ed
.Pp
sets the volume to 60%, waits five seconds, then reduces the volume to 50%.
Note that "wait" lines will not be saved by aumix.  They must be added by hand.
.Sh INTERACTIVE USE
If no options are given on the command line, and
.Nm
is compiled with ncurses, it will run interactively.
.Ss LAYOUT
The left bank of controls is used for adjusting levels; the right
bank is for adjusting balance.
Mixing channels not supported by your hardware will not be shown.
Mixing channels which are stereo-capable will have balance controls.
.Ss KEYS
The following keys control
.Nm
in interactive mode:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It page up, page down, up and down cursor
select a new control.
.It Tab, Enter, <, >, comma and period
toggle between level and balance controls
.It + , \- , \&[ , \&] , left and right cursor and digits
adjust the setting of the current device.
The
.Li +
and right cursor keys increase the level by 3%; the
.Li \-
and left cursor keys decrease it by the same amount.
The
.Li \&[
key sets it to 0% and
.Li \&]
or
.Li 0
set it to 100%.
The digits
.Li 1
to
.Li 9
set it to 10% through 90%.
The same keys work analogously on the balance controls.
.It Space
toggles between record and play for controls which are capable of 
this.
.It |
centers the balance of the current device.
.It K or k
show a description of the functions of keys
.It L or l
load settings from
.Pa $HOME/.aumixrc ,
falling back to
.Pa /etc/aumixrc
.It M or m
mute or unmute
.It O or o
.Dq only :
mute all channels but the current one
.It S or s
save settings to the rc file
.It U or u
undo any muting
.It Q or q
end the program
.It ^L
refresh screen
.El
.Pp
^Z, ^D and ^C also have their normal function (the screen is refreshed when
.Nm
is brought to the foreground).
.Ss MOUSE
In interactive mode,
.Nm
can accept input from the mouse if
.Xr gpm 8
is running and
.Nm
is compiled with
.Xr gpm 8
support.
If gpm is not running but gpm support is included, the message
.Ql mouse off
will appear at the top of the screen, and only keyboard input will be
accepted.
With
.Xr gpm 8
running, most functions can be performed through the mouse.
The mouse is active whenever one of its buttons is held down.
While active, it works in the following ways:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
over a control track, it sets the control to match the position of
the mouse cursor.
.It
over a record/play indicator, it toggles the record/play state.
.It
over the 
.Ql Quit ,
.Ql Load ,
.Ql Save ,
.Ql Keys ,
.Ql Mute ,
.Ql Only ,
or
.Ql Undo
labels at the top of the screen, it causes those actions to take place.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev HOME
variable is used.
When
.Nm
is compiled with GTK+ support,
.Ev DISPLAY
is checked, and if set is used.
.Ev LANG
is used when
.Nm
the ncurses screen is displayed.
.Sh FILES
Saved settings for the mixer are kept in the
.Pa /etc/aumixrc
and
.Pa $HOME/.aumixrc
files, but can be kept anywhere if specified explicitly.
Color schemes are normally kept in the directory given
by
.Ev DATADIR
at compilation time, but are preferentially loaded
from the current directory and can be kept anywhere so long as the
path to them is specified.
The format of these files is:
.Bd -filled -offset indent
.Ar item
.Ar foreground
.Ar background
.Ed 
.Pp
where
.Ar item
is one of
.Ql active ,
.Ql axis ,
.Ql handle ,
.Ql hotkey ,
.Ql menu ,
.Ql play ,
.Ql record ,
or
.Ql track
and
.Ar foreground
and
.Ar background
are one of
.Ql black ,
.Ql red ,
.Ql green ,
.Ql yellow ,
.Ql blue ,
.Ql magenta ,
.Ql cyan ,
or
.Ql white .
The words should be separated by whitespace and can be upper-,
lower-, or mixed-case.
Lines not matching all these conditions are ignored.
Some samples of color schemes are provided, named
after the sort of terminal where they should be most suitable.
.Pp
If either foreground or background is given as
.Ql \- ,
then the default color for that is used.
The defaults are a white foreground and black background.
.Pp
An xpm icon is provided.
.Sh VERSION
This page corresponds to version 2.9.1.
.Sh BUGS
Suspending with ^Z may make the terminal difficult to use.
.Sh HOME PAGE
.Bd -literal
http://jpj.net/~trevor/aumix.html
.Sh MAILING LISTS
.Bd -literal
https://gna.org/mail/?group=aumix
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gpm 1 ,
.Xr moused 8 ,
.Xr sb 4 ,
.Xr xaumix 1
