.\" $Aumix: aumix/doc/mute.1,v 1.1 2002/12/12 01:59:52 trevor Exp $
.\" from mdoc.samples(7)
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.\"           .Dd Month day, year
.\"           .Os OPERATING_SYSTEM [version/release]
.\"           .Dt DOCUMENT_TITLE [section number] [volume]
.\"           .Sh NAME
.\"           .Nm name
.\"           .Nd one line description of name
.\"           .Sh SYNOPSIS
.\"           .Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and
.\" used where appropriate.  This next request is
.\" for sections 2, 3 and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7, 8 & 9 only
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7, 8 & 9 only
.\"     (command return values (to shell) and
.\"       fprintf/stderr type diagnostics)
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" The next request is for sections 2, 3 and 9 error
.\" and signal handling only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\"
.Dd December 11, 2002
.Os
.Dt MUTE 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm mute
.Nd use aumix to mute and un-mute sound output
.Sh SYNOPSIS
This command does not take any command-line arguments.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a small script that uses 
aumix
to conveniently mute and un-mute sound. If sound is currently not
muted, running
.Nm
will save your current settings to ~/.aumixrc (or /etc/aumixrc if
you are root) and mute the sound.  Running
.Nm
again will restore the settings.
.Sh BUGS
The current ~/.aumixrc or /etc/aumixrc will be overwritten.
.Sh AUTHORS
Ben Ford
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr aumix 1
