.\" $Aumix: aumix/doc/xaumix.1,v 1.3 2010/04/30 05:12:12 trevor Exp $
.\" from mdoc.samples(7)
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.\"           .Dd Month day, year
.\"           .Os OPERATING_SYSTEM [version/release]
.\"           .Dt DOCUMENT_TITLE [section number] [volume]
.\"           .Sh NAME
.\"           .Nm name
.\"           .Nd one line description of name
.\"           .Sh SYNOPSIS
.\"           .Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and
.\" used where appropriate.  This next request is
.\" for sections 2, 3 and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7, 8 & 9 only
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7, 8 & 9 only
.\"     (command return values (to shell) and
.\"       fprintf/stderr type diagnostics)
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" The next request is for sections 2, 3 and 9 error
.\" and signal handling only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\"
.Dd July 13, 2000
.Os
.Dt XAUMIX 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm xaumix
.Nd aumix wrapper for X
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a wrapper to select one of rxvt, xterm, kterm, or one of the other possible
xterm "clones", and to launch that with aumix running in it. For some X
terminal emulators an aumix colour scheme file is used to generate a sensible
display (for example, rxvt and xterm behave differently with respect to the
handling of colours).
.Pp
This script was originally intended for use from the Debian
menu
system, but may also be invoked manually from a shell.
The GTK+ interface to
aumix
largely supersedes it.
.Sh AUTHORS
Paul Slootman <paul@debian.org>
.br
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr aumix 1 ,
.Xr eterm 1 ,
.Xr kterm 1 ,
.Xr rxvt 1 ,
.Xr wterm 1 ,
.Xr xterm 1x ,
.Xr xvt 1
