.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH XGI __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
xgixp \- XGI XP video driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qxgixp\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xgixp
is an Xorg driver for XGI XP video cards.  The driver is
accelerated, and provides support for the following framebuffer depths:
1, 4, 8, 15, 16, and 24. Multi-head configurations are supported.
The XvImage extension is supported.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B xgixp
driver supports PCI, AGP, and PCIE video cards based on the following
XGI chips:
.TP 12
Volari 8300
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable the SW cursor.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration.  Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qshadow\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Turn off shadow registers. If you only see
a partial display - this may be the option for you. Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qstretch\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Turn on stretching. When the resolution is lower
than the LCD's screen, this option will stretch the graphics mode to
fill the entire LCD. Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVideoKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets the default pixel value for the YUV video overlay key.
Default: undefined.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDisplay\*q \*q" string \*q
Override the display.
Possible values are \*qCRT\*q, \*qLCD\*q, \*qTV\*q, and \*qDVI\*q.
Please note that this option is only experimentally.
Default: Use display active when X started.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qGammaBrightness\*q \*q" string \*q
Set display gamma value and brightness. \*q\fIstring\fP\*q is
\*q\fIgamma\fP, \fIbrightness\fP\*q, where \fIgamma\fP is a floating
point value greater than 0 and less or equal to 10. \fIbrightness\fP is
an integer value greater or equal to 0 and less than 128.
Default: gamma and brightness control is turned off.
Note: This is not supported on all chipsets.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__),
Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHOR
Author: Andrea Zhang
