.TH acpid 8 ""
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems
.\" Portions Copyright (c) Tim Hockin (thockin@hockin.org)
.SH NAME
acpid \- Advanced Configuration and Power Interface event daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBacpid\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBacpid\fP is designed to notify user-space programs of ACPI events.
\fBacpid\fP should be started during the system boot, and will run as a
background process, by default.  It will open an events file
(\fI/proc/acpi/event\fP by default) and attempt to read whole lines which
represent ACPI events.  If the events file does not exist, \fBacpid\fP will
attempt to connect to the Linux kernel via the input layer and netlink.  When an
ACPI event is received from one of these sources, \fBacpid\fP will examine a
list of rules, and execute the rules that match the event. \fBacpid\fP will
ignore all incoming ACPI events if a lock file exists (\fI/var/lock/acpid\fP by
default).
.PP
\fIRules\fP are defined by simple configuration files.  \fBacpid\fP
will look in a configuration directory (\fI/etc/acpi/events\fP by default),
and parse all regular files with names that consist entirely of upper and
lower case letters, digits, underscores, and hyphens (similar to 
run-parts(8)).
.\" that do not begin with a period ('.') or end with a tilde (~).  
Each file must define two things: an \fIevent\fP and an
\fIaction\fP.  Any blank lines, or lines where the first character is a
hash ('#') are ignored.  Extraneous lines are flagged as warnings, but
are not fatal.  Each line has three tokens: the key, a literal equal sign,
and the value.  The key can be up to 63 characters, and is case-insensitive
(but whitespace matters).  The value can be up to 511 characters, and is
case and whitespace sensitive.
.PP
The event value is a regular expression (see regcomp(3)), against which events are matched.
.PP
The action value is a commandline, which will be invoked via \fI/bin/sh\fP
whenever an event matching the rule in question occurs.  The commandline may
include shell-special characters, and they will be preserved.  The only special
characters in an action value are "%" escaped.  The string "%e" will be
replaced by the literal text of the event for which the action was invoked.
This string may contain spaces, so the commandline must take care to quote the "%e" if it wants a single token.  The string "%%" will be replaced by a
literal "%".  All other "%" escapes are reserved, and will cause a rule to
not load.
.PP
This feature allows multiple rules to be defined for the same event (though no
ordering is guaranteed), as well as one rule to be defined for multiple events.
To force \fBacpid\fP to reload the rule configuration, send it a SIGHUP.
.PP
The pseudo-action \fI<drop>\fP causes the event to be dropped
completely and no further processing undertaken; clients connecting
via the UNIX domain socket (see below) will not be notified of the
event. This may be useful on some machines, such as certain laptops which
generate spurious battery events at frequent intervals. The name of
this pseudo-action may be redefined with a commandline option.
.PP
In addition to rule files, \fBacpid\fP also accepts connections on a UNIX
domain socket (\fI/var/run/acpid.socket\fP by default).  Any application may
connect to this socket.  Once connected, \fBacpid\fP will send the text of
all ACPI events to the client.  The client has the responsibility of filtering
for messages about which it cares.  \fBacpid\fP will not close the client
socket except in the case of a SIGHUP or \fBacpid\fP exiting.
.PP
For faster startup, this socket can be passed in as stdin so that \fBacpid\fP
need not create the socket.  In addition, if a socket is passed in as stdin, 
\fBacpid\fP will not daemonize.  It will be run in foreground.  This behavior 
is provided to support systemd(1).
.PP
.B acpid
will log all of its activities, as well as the stdout and stderr of any
actions, to syslog.
.PP
All the default files and directories can be changed with commandline options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-c "\fR, \fP" \-\-confdir " directory"
This option changes the directory in which \fBacpid\fP looks for rule
configuration files.  Default is \fI/etc/acpi/events\fP.
.TP 12
.BI \-C "\fR, \fP" \-\-clientmax " number"
This option changes the maximum number of non-root socket connections which
can be made to the \fBacpid\fP socket.  Default is \fI256\fP.
.TP 12
.BI \-d "\fR, \fP" \-\-debug
This option increases the \fBacpid\fP debug level by one.  If the debug level
is non-zero, \fBacpid\fP will run in the foreground, and will log to
stderr, in addition to the regular syslog.
.TP
.BI \-e "\fR, \fP" \-\-eventfile " filename"
This option changes the event file from which \fBacpid\fP reads events.
Default is \fI/proc/acpi/event\fP.
.TP
.BI \-n "\fR, \fP" \-\-netlink
This option forces \fBacpid\fP to use the Linux kernel input layer and netlink interface for ACPI events.
.TP
.BI \-f "\fR, \fP" \-\-foreground
This option keeps \fBacpid\fP in the foreground by not forking at startup.
.TP
.BI \-l "\fR, \fP" \-\-logevents
This option tells \fBacpid\fP to log information about all events and actions.
.TP
.BI \-L "\fR, \fP" \-\-lockfile " filename"
This option changes the lock file used to stop event processing.
Default is \fI/var/lock/acpid\fP.
.TP
.BI \-g "\fR, \fP" \-\-socketgroup " groupname"
This option changes the group ownership of the UNIX domain socket to which
\fBacpid\fP publishes events.
.TP
.BI \-m "\fR, \fP" \-\-socketmode " mode"
This option changes the permissions of the UNIX domain socket to which
\fBacpid\fP publishes events.  Default is \fI0666\fP.
.TP
.BI \-s "\fR, \fP" \-\-socketfile " filename"
This option changes the name of the UNIX domain socket which \fBacpid\fP opens.
Default is \fI/var/run/acpid.socket\fP.
.TP
.BI \-S "\fR, \fP" \-\-nosocket " filename"
This option tells \fBacpid\fP not to open a UNIX domain socket.  This
overrides the \fI-s\fP option, and negates all other socket options.
.TP
.BI \-p "\fR, \fP" \-\-pidfile " filename"
This option tells \fBacpid\fP to use the specified file as its pidfile.  If
the file exists, it will be removed and over-written.
Default is \fI/var/run/acpid.pid\fP.
.TP
.BI \-r "\fR, \fP" \-\-dropaction " action"
This option defines the pseudo-action which tells \fBacpid\fP to abort
all processing of an event, including client notifications.
Default is \fI<drop>\fP.
.TP
.BI \-t "\fR, \fP" \-\-tpmutefix
This option enables special handling of the mute button for certain
ThinkPad models with mute LEDs that get out of sync with the mute state
when the mute button is held down.  With this option, the mute button
will generate the following events in sync with the number of presses
(and, by extension, the state of the LED):
.IP
.br
button/mute MUTE (key pressed) K
.br
button/mute MUTE (key released) K
.TP
.BI \-v "\fR, \fP" \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BI \-h "\fR, \fP" \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
This example will shut down your system if you press the power button.
.PP
Create a file named /etc/acpi/events/power that contains the following:
.IP
.br
event=button/power
.br
action=/etc/acpi/power.sh "%e"
.PP
Then create a file named /etc/acpi/power.sh that contains the following:
.IP
/sbin/shutdown \-h now "Power button pressed"
.PP
Now, when \fBacpid\fP is running, a press of the power button will cause the
rule in /etc/acpi/events/power to trigger the script in /etc/acpi/power.sh.
The script will then shut down the system.
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
\fBacpid\fP is a simple program that runs scripts in response to ACPI
events from the kernel.  When there's trouble, the problem is rarely
with \fBacpid\fP itself.  The following are some suggestions for
finding the most common sources of ACPI-related problems.
.PP
When troubleshooting \fBacpid\fP, it is important to be aware that other parts
of a system might be handling ACPI events.
\fBsystemd\fP(1) is capable of handling the power switch and various other
events that are commonly handled by \fBacpid\fP.  See the description of
HandlePowerKey in \fBlogind.conf\fP(5) for more.  Some window managers also
take over \fBacpid\fP's normal handling of the power button and other events.
.PP
kacpimon(8) can be used to verify that the expected ACPI events are
coming in.  See the man page for kacpimon(8) for the proper procedure.
If the events aren't
coming in, you've probably got a kernel driver issue.
.PP
If the expected events are coming in, then you'll need
to check and see if your window manager is responsible for
handling these events.  Some are, some aren't.  (E.g. in Ubuntu
14.04 (Unity/GNOME), there are settings for the laptop lid in the
System Settings > Power > "When the lid is closed" fields.)
If your window manager is responsible for handling the problematic
event, and you've got it configured properly, then you may have a
window manager issue.
.PP
Lastly, take a look in \fI/etc/acpi/events\fP (see above).  Is there
a configuration file in there for the event
in question (e.g. /etc/acpi/events/lidbtn for laptop lid open/close
events)?  Is it properly connected to a
script (e.g. /etc/acpi/lid.sh)?  Is that script working?  It's not
unusual for an \fBacpid\fP script to check and see if there is a window
manager running, then do nothing if there is.  This means it is up
to the window manager to handle this event.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
\fBacpid\fP should work on any linux kernel released since 2003.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.B /proc/acpi/event
.br
.B /dev/input/event*
.br
.B /etc/acpi/
.br
.B /var/run/acpid.socket
.br
.B /var/run/acpid.pid
.br
.B /var/lock/acpid
.br
.PD
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs.  To file bug reports, see \fBPROJECT WEBSITE\fP 
below.
.SH SEE ALSO
regcomp(3), sh(1), socket(2), connect(2), init(1), systemd(1), 
acpi_listen(8), kacpimon(8)
.SH PROJECT WEBSITE
http://sourceforge.net/projects/acpid2/
.SH AUTHORS
Ted Felix <ted@tedfelix.com>
.br
Tim Hockin <thockin@hockin.org>
.br
Andrew Henroid

