.TH vncinitconfig 1 "May 2012" "RealVNC Ltd" "VNC Server"
.SH NAME
vncinitconfig \- Set up VNC\(rg Server configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "vncinitconfig " action\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vncinitconfig
is used to create or reset default VNC configuration settings.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B -install-defaults
Perform all the actions below, where supported on the current platform,
enabling printing for all users. This option is run during installation
if packages are being used, and may also be used to resolve some
configuration problems.
.TP
.B -pam
.RI "Create " /etc/pam.d/vncserver " or update " /etc/pam.conf ,
depending upon the version of PAM installed on your system. This file is
required to support authentication using PAM.
.TP
.B -xstartup
.RI "Create " /etc/vnc/xstartup .
This script is run by the
.B vncserver-virtual
command when a new desktop is started.
.TP
.B -config
.RI "Create " /etc/vnc/config .
See the
.B vncserver-virtual
man page for full details of this file.
.TP
.B -keygen
Generate a private key for the current user.
.TP
.B -licensing
Create or clean up licensing directory.
.TP
.B -service-daemon
Install init script for service-mode daemon
.TP
.B -virtual-daemon
Install init script for virtual-mode daemon
.TP
.B -enable-print
Enable printing for all users
.TP
.B -disable-print
Disable printing for all users
.SH NOTES
If you have modified any of the files replaced by
.B vncinitconfig
then your modifications will be preserved with a
.I .old
suffix and a message will be printed informing you of this. However, all such
files are clearly marked with a comment explaining where equivalent custom
changes can be made in a way that will not be overwriten by
.BR vncinitconfig .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vncserver-virtual (1),
.BR vncviewer (1),
.BR vncaddrbook (1),
.BR vncpasswd (1),
.BR vnclicense (1),
.BR Xvnc (1),
.BR vncserver-x11 (1)
.br
http://www.realvnc.com
.SH AUTHOR
RealVNC Ltd.
