.TH vncserver-virtuald 1 "May 2012" "RealVNC Ltd" "VNC Server"
.SH NAME
vncserver-virtuald \- VNC\(rg Virtual Server Daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vncserver-virtuald
.RI [ OPTION... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vncserver-virtuald
is a daemon which manages incoming VNC connections, authenticating users as
they connect.  A virtual server instance is started for each succesfully
authenticated user, and the user is connected through to the new instance.
It is designed to be started automatically at system boot time, and waits 
in the background for incoming VNC connections.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-help
Gives a list of supported options.
.TP
.B \-fg
Causes the daemon to run in the foreground, which can be useful for 
troubleshooting.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
In addition to the command line, configuration parameters can also be specified
in 
.I /etc/vnc/config.d/vncserver-virtuald
as well as the common configuration files used by all RealVNC applications.

.SH STARTING AUTOMATICALLY
A suitable init script for your system should have been installed by the 
vncinitconfig program. This can be used to start and stop the daemon manually
as follows:

.nf
  # /etc/init.d/vncserver-virtuald (start|stop)
.fi

To have the daemon start automatically at system boot time, you need to run
the appropriate configuration tool for your system to enable it. For example,
on Debian-based systems use the
.B update-rc.d 
tool:

.nf
  # update-rc.d vncserver-virtuald defaults
.fi

On Red Hat-based systems use the 
.B chkconfig 
tool:

.nf
  # chkconfig --add vncserver-virtuald
.fi

For other systems please consult your system documentation on startup scripts.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vncserver-virtual (1),
.BR vncinitconfig (1),
.BR Xvnc (1),
.br
http://www.realvnc.com
.SH AUTHOR
RealVNC Ltd.
